I was born in the truth.
And when I was about 14,
I became a publisher.
When I was still 14,
I was no longer a publisher.
I became a thief
and a drug dealer when I was a teenager
—around 15 or 16 years old.
When I was older, I was arrested.
I did a lot of bad things inside prison.
I basically fought with everyone in there.
Anything that would make us smile
or any reasons we had to be happy
in prison were short-lived.
Your joy is gone
because reality hits that you’re in prison.
When I saw that I was
the reason that my situation
kept getting worse and worse,
I knew I had to change.
I asked Jehovah for help.
And then I remembered
the account of Manasseh,
who sacrificed his own children,
and he was forgiven by Jehovah.
That account really helped me to understand
that there was hope for me
and that I could be forgiven.
And then one day during inmate visitation,
I saw a brother inside there.
And I asked him
if he was one of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
and he said that he was.
That’s when I started
my Bible study inside prison.
After studying for six months,
I was transferred to an open prison
where I could work during the day
and return to prison at night.
Then that’s when my situation
hit rock bottom again.
My situation was so bad
that I came to the conclusion
that it would be better to escape
from there because if I didn’t,
I would die
because of so much drug abuse.
And that’s what I did.
At the first opportunity I had, I escaped.
After I escaped,
I was determined again to change,
to ask Jehovah for help,
and to go back to the meetings.
I would smoke, cry,
and talk to Jehovah all at the same time:
“Help me get out of this situation
because I know your name,
and a person who knows
your name can’t use drugs!”
Some time later,
I found out about a group
of brothers and sisters
who met at a Kingdom Hall near my house.
That’s when I started attending
the meetings again.
I stopped using drugs with Jehovah’s help.
And after some time passed,
I expressed my desire to be a publisher.
Up to this point,
I hadn’t told anything to my Bible teacher
about my current situation with the law.
So on the day we considered the questions,
he asked the questions, right?
And when we were
at the end of the consideration,
he looked at me
and asked me just like this,
“You don’t have anything to tell me, do you?”
Then he said:
“Do you know why I’m asking you this?
Turn to the book of Acts chapter 5,
and let’s see what it says there.”
So I read the account
about Ananias and Sapphira,
who sold some property
but kept part of the money,
and because of their actions, they died.
It wasn’t that they had lied to men,
but they had lied to Jehovah.
It was at that moment that I realized
that I needed to tell him about my situation.
I had to turn myself in,
so I went back to the prison
that I ran away from.
So I told my Bible teacher
that was what I was going to do.
When I arrived
at the front door of the penitentiary
and the police officer saw me,
he asked if I was a lawyer.
I was well-dressed and had a tie on.
I told him: “No, no, Officer.
“I’m a fugitive,
and I came back here to serve my time.”
I felt as if Jehovah had taken
a huge weight off my shoulders.
I felt that he was now truly helping me.
After being a publisher
for a few months back in prison,
I expressed my desire
to make a dedication to Jehovah.
I received the privilege
on the day of my baptism
to leave the penitentiary
and go to the baptism location.
I was baptized,
and at the end of the day,
I went back to prison.
After some time had passed,
I received my freedom.
Making the decision to turn myself in
and go back to prison
was the best way that I found
to show my love for Jehovah.
It’s for this reason
that I have come to the conclusion
that being imprisoned brought me freedom.